Meet the ronny, a boy from the rural kenya, he is the brilliant student but his brillance and want to be engineer so he can solve problem of his country but he got competition from his fade. ronny father is daily wedge worker and his mother is housewife. He get a laptop from a NGO by aim to keep pace with other student . but getting laptop will change it story ? let see- he have laptop but not regular internet, and even irregular internet is quite experience. He is brilliant in math and science but not english due to lack of exposure , just because he dont know a language will get deprive from most of valuable knowledge out there. Ronny is not a person but he is fade of millions of students in the earth. Where one side we are taking to use ai to solve ( need to mention a great problem) while otherside millions of student not even use basic ai use .

AI have made much process in recent years, many model comes out, many application  have made but one things remain unchanged - exclusivity, while their are lot of open source model but very few actually have use to make something useful for student. Their are millions of poor students who dont have proper access of education , their are very few educators who can keep student uptodate in age of AI. This is not just waste of potential but aslo create wider the gap between rich and poor. We have hundred of general LLM models but most of either close source or either too big that can be individually host and use. In such situation gemma4 comes with the hope for all students who cant afford such expensive settings of AI. Governments , NGOs and sometime parents of student provide the laptop to students but still the student not able to use ai for study.
Apart from that, the language barrier is also a major drawback, since most of the material available in very few languages and many student across the world not comfortable with such languages and deprived from these valuables materials.
Many materials are very hard to understand for many student.
Mainstream chat model accessible via ui also comes with another major drawback that it use own knowledge and internet to give answer but if we have need targeted answer from material we provided, then what?
To fulfill these gap, we are presenting GemmaDesk- a offline desktop native multimodal LLM application for study which is powered by gemma 4e4. Gemma desk uses gamma 4b parameter with litert lm which make the gemmadesk very lightweight so it can run on medium end laptops and desktops.
Gemmadesk have been comes with the vision of utilizing the powerful feature of gemma4 and make a tool where students can provide any material in any language and get a tailored response in own preferred languages.
From long time this is not easily feasible due to technical limitation of small languages models but gemma4 make it possible with its multimodal capabilities and with support over 140+ languages.  
Gemmadesk takes file as input in different format such as text,image,audio,video and pdf and process it using gemma4 multimodal capability and provides  responses based the the files. you can select your own language and you will get the response within.
Gemmadesk use multimodel capabilities of gemm4 and can process image,video, audio and text and can produce output based on the document.
User can select targeted documents so ai not wonder in sky and make answer its own.

 
